=== All-About-Hacking.pdf ===
Total Pages: 238
============================================================


CHAPTER 5 : Various Types of Hacking attacks
CHAPTER 6 : Hacking Tools
CHAPTER 7 : Malware : A hackers Henchman
CHAPTER 8 : Common Attacks and Viruses
CHAPTER 9 : Password cracking and How to hack an Email password?
CHAPTER 10 : Penetration Testing
CHAPTER 11 : Windows Hacking Tricks
CHAPTER 12 : Internet Hacking Tricks
__________________________________
CHAPTER 1
Hacking briefly
__________________________________
 
Hacking
Hacking is the practice of modifying the features of a system, in order to accomplish a goal outside of
the creator's original purpose.
The most fundamental meaning of hacking is gaining unauthorized access to data in a system or
computer.
Hacking is exploiting security controls either in a technical, physical or a human-based element.  ~
Kevin Mitnick
The person who is consistently engaging in hacking activities, and has accepted hacking as a lifestyle
and philosophy of their choice, is called a hacker.
Computer hacking is the most popular form of hacking nowadays, especially in the field of computer
security.
The mass attention given to blackhat hackers from the media cause the whole hacking term is often
mistaken for any security related cybercrime.
However, the word "hacking" has two definitions. The first definition refers to the hobby/profession
of working with computers. The second definition refers to modifies computer hardware or software
in a way that changes the creator's original intent.
It is the art of exploiting computers to get access to otherwise unauthorized information. Now that the
world is using IT systems to gather, store and manipulate important information there is also a need to
make sure that data is secure. However, no system is without is problems. Holes are often present
within security systems which, if exploited, allow hackers to gain access to this otherwise restricted

information.
Purpose behind Hacking : When somebody tries to access other's computer systems with the aim
of destroying or altering important information or data, such an activity is defined as hacking and
the person is called a hacker. It is believed that hacking activities are not backed by solid logical
reasons. On the contrary, hackers try to experiment with the computer brilliance by trying of
affect other system with viruses. Hacking is done mostly for sheer pleasure by which a hacker
wants to prove his skills. But if at all one searches for reasons behind it, it can be logically
concluded Hacking is carried out with the objective of tracing vital information and affecting
computer systems with viruses.
Hacker
Hacker is a term used by some to mean "a clever programmer" and by others, especially those in
popular media, to mean "someone who tries to break into computer systems.
Cracking
Cracking is the act of breaking into a computer system, often on a network. A cracker can be doing
this for profit, maliciously, for some altruistic purpose or cause, or because the challenge is there.
Some breaking-and-entering has been done ostensibly to point out weaknesses in a site's security
system.
Contrary to widespread myth, cracking does not usually involve some mysterious leap of hackerly
brilliance, but rather persistence and the dogged repetition of a handful of fairly well-known tricks
that exploit common weaknesses in the security of target systems. Accordingly, most crackers are
only mediocre hackers. These two terms should not be confused with each others. Hackers generally
deplore cracking.
Cracker
A cracker is someone who breaks into someone else's computer system, often on a network; bypasses
passwords or licenses in computer programs; or in other ways intentionally breaches computer
security.
Hacking as a Destructive Tool
The common stance on hacking with the average person is that it is morally wrong. There have been
several instances where hacking has proven to have caused problems. Hacking can create a variety of
damages to people, groups and systems of broad spectrum. Negative Hacking Interactions:
Identity Theft – Some hackers can gain access to sensitive information which could be used to fuel

identity theft. This identity theft can cause damages to credit ratings from consumer agencies, run-ins
with the law because the person who stole the identity committed a crime, or other damages which
may not be repairable at all.
E-mail Access – Hackers have the ability to gain access to personal e-mail accounts. These can have
a variety of information and other private files which most people would regard as important. This
information could also hold sensitive data which could be used against someone or simply cause ruin
for those who are involved in the breach of privacy.
Website Security – Many websites have been victims of hackers. Usually the hackers would simply
destroy data and leave the websites in an inoperable state which would leave website owners with
the task of rebuilding their sites from scratch if they did not have a backup. This could also pose risks
for companies who had their consumer's payment information hosted on their websites. Defacing the
websites by leaving tags or "calling cards" stating the unknown group's signature was not uncommon
in the early days of hacking websites.
Hacking as a Political Statement
Some hackers are out to get the government and show the vulnerabilities that the government has in
trusting their systems too much.
This is extremely illegal in the United States and other countries. This has led to some vulnerability in
security systems to being fixed and made the government computer systems even stronger. Of course it
is difficult to do this kind of hacking without a trace being left behind.
Most if not all hackers who get into the government systems around the world are captured by the
government and punished for unauthorized access to their systems.
Hacking through Worm Exploits
Worms are nasty pieces of malicious code which are designed to find vulnerabilities in computer
systems and exploit them with automated processing.
They can be used to destroy data, collect information or simply lie in wait until they are given
commands to do something. The worm code self replicates and tries to infect as many systems as
possible.
The big threat that these worms bring is the knowledge that a system is open.   This can allow the
automated response to install a back door into a system which can allow malicious hackers to gain
access to computers as well as turning systems into "zombies" which could be used for various
purposes including spamming and masking the actions of the original hacker. Creators of catastrophic
software such as the author of the first Internet worm, Robbert Tappan Morris Jr. did not mean to do
bad at all.
Before the Internet, there was ARPANET (Advanced Research Projects Agency Network), whic
was used by the United States government Department of Defense. Morris created the Morris worm

which was meant to gauge the size of the Internet but had actually gained access to ARPANET by
accessing vulnerabilities in Unix based systems which were in use at the time.
There was an error in his coding of the worm which caused replication at exponential rates which
gained access into NASA and the Air Force systems. It was not intended to harm the computers, bu
did show that they were vulnerable to attacks. He got off with only community service even though
federal guidelines should have given him extensive consequences for his actions. He was hired by
MIT and is currently a professor working in the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
Hacking as a Learning Tool
Hacking leads several people into the interest of creating newer, better software which can
revolutionize the electronic world.
Although it is important to remember that hacking is a varied skill and those who have been hacking
the longest will have more success because they know how computers work and how they have
evolved over time.
Ethical hackers use their knowledge to improve the vulnerabilities in systems, their hardware and
software. The ethical hackers come from a wide variety of different backgrounds.
The best examples are from ex-malicious hackers who decide their purpose is to help prevent
damages to companies by holes in their security. These companies pay their ethical hackers
handsomely as they are providing a service which could be extremely useful in preventing damages
and loss.
They can be hired by single companies who need advanced protection while others could be hired by
software designers who will reach millions of people around the world.
Possible Protection from Hackers
Protection from hackers is important no matter whether it is for personal use or for large
corporations. The following tools are the best defense against hackers:
Firewalls – The firewall is a software barrier which is designed to protect private resources and
prevents unauthorized network traffic. They are designed to block off ports of access on the computer
and require administrative clearance to access resources.
Routers – All modern routers include firewalls and protective features. You can password protect
wireless networks and create useful protection with them.
Updates – Software updates are crucial to ensure the safety and security of any application of the
software. It could be the operating system at home or the server software that processes website
information and more.
___________________________

CHAPTER 2
Classification
various Kind of hacking
___________________________
Computer Hackers have been around for so many years. Since the Computer and Internet became
widely used in the World, We have started to hear more and more about hacking.
As the word ‘Hacking’ has two meaning, so the word ‘Hacker’ is a word that has two meanings:
Traditionally, a Hacker is someone who likes to play with Software or Electronic Systems. Hackers
enjoy Exploring and Learning how Computer systems operate. They love discovering new ways to
work electronically.
Recently, Hacker has taken on a new meaning that someone who finds weaknesses in a computer or
computer network, though the term can also refer to someone with an advanced understanding of
computers and computer networks.
Normally, Hackers are people who try to gain unauthorized access to your computer.
With controversy, the term hacker is reclaimed by computer programmers who argue that someone
breaking into computers is better called a cracker, not making a difference between computer
criminals (black hats) and computer security experts (white hats). Some white hat hackers claim that
they also deserve the title hacker, and that only black hats should be called crackers.
If hackers, if anyone committing a criminal act, wants to reduce their risk, they obviously don't
involve anybody else. The greater the circle of people that know what you're doing, the higher the
risk. ~ Kevin Mitnick
Classifications of Hacker
There are many more types of hackers in the world according to their motive and type of work. The
following list forwards one mote steps to better knowing hackers.
White hat hacker
The term "White hat hacker" refers to an ethical hacker, or a computer security expert, who
specializes in penetration testing and in other testing methodologies to ensure the security of an
organization's information systems. Ethical hacking is a term coined by IBM meant to imply a broader
category than just penetration testing. White-hat hackers are also called penetration tester, sneakers,
red teams, or tiger teams. Generally, White hat hackers or ethical hackers are the good guy in the
world of hackers.
Black hat hacker
A black hat hacker is an individual with extensive computer knowledge whose purpose is to breach
or bypass internet security. Black hat hackers are also known as crackers or dark-side hackers. The

general view is that, while hackers build things, crackers break things. They are computer security
hackers that break into computers and networks or also create computer viruses. The term “black hat”
comes from old westerns where the bad guys usually wore black hats.
Black hat hackers break into secure networks to destroy data or make the network unusable for those
who are authorized to use the network.
They choose their targets using a two-pronged process known as the "pre-hacking stage".
Step 1: Targeting
Step 2: Research and Information Gathering
Step 3: Finishing the Attack
Grey hat hacker
A grey hat hacker is a combination of a black hat and a white hat hacker. It may relate to whether they
sometimes arguably act illegally, though in good will, or to show how they disclose vulnerabilities.
They usually do not hack for personal gain or have malicious intentions, but may be prepared to
technically commit crimes during the course of their technological exploits in order to achieve better
security.
Blue hat
A blue hat hacker is someone outside computer security consulting firms who is used to bug test a
system prior to its launch, looking for exploits so they can be closed. Microsoft also uses the term
BlueHat to represent a series of security briefing events.
Elite hacker
A social status among hackers, elite is used to describe the most skilled. Newly discovered activities
will circulate among these hackers.
Script kiddie
A script kiddie (or skiddie) is a non-expert who breaks into computer systems by using pre-packaged
automated tools written by others, usually with little understanding of the underlying concept hence
the term script (i.e. a prearranged plan or set of activities) kiddie (i.e. kid, child an individual lacking
knowledge and experience, immature).
Neophyte “newbie”
A neophyte, "n00b", or "newbie" is someone who is new to hacking or phreaking and has almost no
knowledge or experience of the workings of technology, and hacking.
Hacktivist
A hacktivist is a hacker who utilizes technology to announce a social, ideological, religious, or
political message. In general, most hacktivism involves website defacement or denial-of-service
attacks.
Nation state

It refers to Intelligence agencies and cyber warfare operatives of nation states.
Organized criminal gangs
Criminal activity carried on for profit.
Bots
Automated software tools, some freeware, available for the use of any type of hacker.
_____________________
CHAPTER 3
Computer Security
Computer Crime and
Intelligence Agency
_____________________
Computer Security
The security applied to computing devices such as computers and smartphones, as well as computer
networks such as private and public networks, including the whole Internet is called as Computer
Security.
It includes physical security to prevent theft of equipment and information security to protect the data
on that equipment. It is sometimes referred to as "Cyber Security" or "IT security".
Cybersecurity is the process of applying security measures to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of data.
Computer Threats
A threat is a possible danger that might exploit a vulnerability to breach security and thus cause
possible harm.

It can be either "intentional" (i.e., intelligent; e.g., an individual cracker or a criminal organization) or
"accidental" (e.g., the possibility of a computer malfunctioning, or the possibility of a natural disaster
such as an earthquake, a fire, or a tornado) or otherwise a circumstance, capability, action, or event.
Computer Crime
Computer crime refers to any crime that involves a computer and a network. Net crime refers to
criminal exploitation of the Internet.
Cybercrimes are defined as: "Offences that are committed against individuals or groups of
individuals with a criminal motive to intentionally harm the reputation of the victim or cause
physical or mental harm to the victim directly or indirectly, using modern telecommunication
networks such as Internet (Chat rooms, emails, notice boards and groups) and mobile phones
(SMS/MMS)".
Such crimes may threaten a nation’s security and financial health. Issues surrounding this type of
crime has become high-profile, particularly those surrounding cracking, copyright infringement, child
pornography, and child grooming. There are also problems of privacy when confidential information
is lost or intercepted, lawfully or otherwise.

Topology of computer crime
Computer crime encompasses a broad range of activities. Generally, however, it may be divided into
two categories: (1) crimes that target computers directly; (2) crimes facilitated by computer networks
or devices, the primary target of which is independent of the computer network or device.
1. Crimes that primarily target computer networks or devices include: Computer viruses,
Denial-of-service attacks, Malware (malicious code)
2. Crimes that use computer networks or devices to advance other ends include: Cyber

stalking, Fraud and identity theft, Information warfare, Phishing scams
Cyber Terrorism
Cyber terrorism in general, can be defined as an act of terrorism committed through the use of
cyberspace or computer resources. As such, a simple propaganda in the Internet, that there will be
bomb attacks during the holidays can be considered cyber-terrorism.
Top 10 Intelligence agencies of the world
CIA – America
Formed : September 18, 1947
Agency executive : Leon Panetta, Director
Parent agency : Central Intelligence Group
CIA is the largest of the intelligence agencies and is responsible for gathering data from other
countries that could impact U.S. policy. It is a civilian intelligence agency of the United States
government responsible for providing national security intelligence to senior United States
policymakers. The CIA also engages in covert activities at the request of the President of the United
States of America. The CIA’s primary function is to collect information about foreign governments,
corporations, and individuals, and to advise public policymakers. The agency conducts covert
operations and paramilitary actions, and exerts foreign political influence through its Special
Activities Division. It has failed to control terrorism activities including 9/11, Not even a single top
level Al-Queda leader captured own its own in the past 9 years – ‘they missed 1 Million’ Soviet
troops marching into Afghanistan’. Iraq’s Weapons of Mass Destruction, Have the found them yet? -
Number of defectors/ double agents numbers close to a thousand. On 50th anniversary of CIA
President Clinton said ”By necessity, the American people will never know the full story of your
courage. Indeed, no one knows that what CIA really does”. Highly funded and technologically most
advanced Intelligence set-up in the world.
M1-6 – United Kingdom
Formed : 1909 as the Secret Service Bureau
Jurisdiction : Government of the United Kingdom
Headquarters : Vauxhall Cross, London
Agency executive : Sir John Sawers KCMG, Director General
Parent agency : Foreign and Commonwealth Office
The British have had a long public perception of an effective intelligence agency (due to the success
of the unrealistic, yet entertaining, James Bond movies). This perception matches reality. MI6, the

British equivalent to the CIA, has had two big advantages in staying effective: The British Officia
Secrets Act and D notices can often prevent leaks (which have been the bane of the CIA’s existence).
Some stories have emerged. In the Cold War, MI6 recruited Oleg Penkovsky, who played a key part
in the favorable resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis, and Oleg Gordievski, who operated for a
decade before MI6 extracted him via Finland. The British were even aware of Norwood’s activities
but made the decision not to tip their hand. MI6 also is rumored to have sabotaged the Tu-144
supersonic airliner program by altering documents and making sure they fell into the hands of the
KGB.
ISI – Pakistan
Formed : 1948
Jurisdiction : Government of Pakistan
Headquarters : Islamabad, Pakistan
Agency executive : Lieutenant General Ahmad Shuja Pasha, PA Director General
With the lengthiest track record of success, the best know Intelligence so far on the scale of records is
ISI. The Inter-Services Intelligence was created as an independent unit in 1948 in order to strengthen
the performance of Pakistan’s Military Intelligence during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947. Its success
in achieving its goal without leading to a full scale invasion of Pakistan by the Soviets is a feat
unmatched by any other through out the intelligence world. KGB, The best of its time, failed to
counter ISI and protect Soviet interests in Central Asia. It has had 0 double agents or Defectors
through out its history, considering that in light of the whole war campaign it carried out from money
earned by selling drugs bought from the very people it was bleeding, The Soviets. It has protected its
Nuclear Weapons since formed and it has foiled Indian attempts to attain ultimate supremacy in the
South-Asian theatres through internal destabilization of India. It is above All laws in its host country
Pakistan ‘A State, with in a State’. Its policies are made ‘outside’ of all other institutions with the
exception of The Army. Its personnel have never been caught on camera. Its is believed to have the
highest number of agents worldwide, close to 10,000. The most striking thing is that its one of the
least funded Intelligence agency out of the top 10.
Mossad – Israel
Formed : December 13, 1949 as the Central Institute for Coordination
Agency executive : Meir Dagan, Director
Parent agency : Office of the Prime Minister
The Mossad is responsible for intelligence collection and covert operations including paramilitary
activities. It is one of the main entities in the Israeli Intelligence Community, along with Aman
(military intelligence) and Shin Bet (internal security), but its director reports directly to the Prime
Minister. The list of its successes is long. Israel’s intelligence agency is most famous for having taken

out a number of PLO operatives in retaliation for the attack that killed eleven Israeli athletes at the
1972 Olympic games in Munich. However, this agency has other success to its name, including the
acquisition of a MiG-21 prior to the Six-Day war of 1967 and the theft of the plans for the Mirage 5
after the deal with France went sour. Mossad also assisted the United States in supporting Solidarity
in Poland during the 1980s.
MSS – China
Jurisdiction : People’s Republic of China
Headquarters : Beijing
Agency executive : Geng Huichang, Minister of State Security
Parent agency : State Council
Ministry of State Security is the security agency of the People’s Republic of China. It is also probably
the Chinese government’s largest and most active foreign intelligence agency, though it is also
involved in domestic security matters. Article 4 of the Criminal Procedure Law gives the MSS the
same authority to arrest or detain people as regular police for crimes involving state security with
identical supervision by the procuratorates and the courts. It is headquartered near the Ministry of
Public Security of the People’s Republic of China in Beijing. According to Liu Fuzhi, Secretary
General of the Commission for Politics and Law under the Central Committee of the Communist Party
of China and Minister of Public Security, the mission of the MSS is to ensure “the security of the state
through effective measures against enemy agents, spies, and counter-revolutionary activities designed
to sabotage or overthrow China’s socialist system.”  One of the primary missions of the MSS is
undoubtedly to gather foreign intelligence from targets in various countries overseas. Many MSS
agents are said to have operated in the Greater China region (Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan) and to
have integrated themselves into the world’s numerous overseas Chinese communities. At one point,
nearly 120 agents who had been operating under non-official cover in the U.S., Canada, Western and
Northern Europe, and Japan as businessmen, bankers, scholars, and journalists were recalled to
China, a fact that demonstrates the broad geographical scope of MSS agent coverage.
BND – Germany
Formed : 1 April 1956
Agency executive : Gehlen Organization
Parent agency : Central Intelligence Group
The Bundesnachrichtendienst is the foreign intelligence agency of the German government, under the
control of the Chancellor’s Office. The BND acts as an early warning system to alert the German
government to threats to German interests from abroad. It depends heavily on wiretapping and
electronic surveillance of international communications. It collects and evaluates information on a
variety of areas such as international terrorism, WMD proliferation and illegal transfer of technology,

organized crime, weapons and drug trafficking, money laundering, illegal migration and information
warfare. As Germany’s only overseas intelligence service, the BND gathers both military and civil
intelligence.
FSB – Russia
Formed : 3 April, 1995
Headquarters : Lubyanka Square
Preceding agency : KGB
The Federal Security Service of Russian Federation (FSD) is the main domestic security agency o
the Russian Federation and the main successor agency of the Soviet-era Cheka, NKVD and KGB. Th
FSB is involved in counter-intelligence, internal and border security, counter-terrorism, and
surveillance. Its headquarters are on Lubyanka Square, downtown Moscow, the same location as the
former headquarters of the KGB. All law enforcement and intelligence agencies in Russia work under
the guidance of FSB, if needed. For example, the GRU, spetsnaz and Internal Troops detachments o
Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs work together with the FSB in Chechnya. The FSB is responsibl
for internal security of the Russian state, counterespionage, and the fight against organized crime,
terrorism, and drug smuggling. The number of FSB personnel and its budget remain state secrets
although the budget was reported to jump nearly 40% in 2006.
DGSE – France
Formed : April 2, 1982
Preceding agency : External Documentation and Counter-Espionage Service
Minister responsible : Hervé Morin, Minister of Defence
Agency executive : Erard Corbin de Mangoux, Director
Directorate General for External Security is France’s external intelligence agency. Operating under
the direction of the French ministry of defence, the agency works alongside the DCRI (the Centra
Directorate of Interior Intelligence) in providing intelligence and national security, notably by
performing paramilitary and counterintelligence operations abroad. The General Directorate for
External Security (DGSE) of France has a rather short history compared to other intelligence agencies
in the region. It was officially founded in 1982 from a multitude of prior intelligence agencies in the
country. Its primary focus is to gather intelligence from foreign sources to assist in military and
strategic decisions for the country. The agency employs more than five thousand people.
RAW – India
Formed : 21 September 1968

Headquarters : New Delhi, India
Agency executive : K. C. Verma, Secretary (R)
Parent agency : Prime Minister’s Office, GoI
Research and Analysis Wing is India’s external intelligence agency. It was formed in September
1968, after the newly independent Republic of India was faced with 2 consecutive wars, the Sino-
Indian war of 1962 and the India-Pakistani war of 1965, as it was evident that a credible intelligence
gathering setup was lacking. Its primary function is collection of external intelligence, counter-
terrorism and covert operations. In addition, it is responsible for obtaining and analyzing information
about foreign governments, corporations, and persons, in order to advise Indian foreign policymakers.
Until the creation of R&AW, the Intelligence Bureau handled both internal and external intelligence.
ASIS – Australia
Formed : 13 May 1952
Headquarters : Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia
Minister responsible : The Hon. Stephen Smith MP, Minister for Foreign Affairs
Agency executive : Nick Warner, Director-General
Australian Secret Intelligence Service is the Australian government intelligence agency responsible
for collecting foreign intelligence, undertaking counter-intelligence activities and cooperation with
other intelligence agencies overseas. For more than twenty years, the existence of the agency was a
secret even from its own government. Its primary responsibility is gathering intelligence from mainly
Asian and Pacific interests using agents stationed in a wide variety of areas. Its main purpose, as with
most agencies, is to protect the country’s political and economic interests while ensuring safety for
the people of Australia against national threats.
______________________________
CHAPTER 4
Network systems and DNS working
______________________________
Computer Network
A computer network is a group of computer systems and other computing hardware devices that are
linked together through communication channels to facilitate communication and resource-sharing
among a wide range of users. Networks are commonly categorized based on their characteristics.
One of the earliest examples of a computer network was a network of communicating computers that

functioned as part of the U.S. military's Semi-Automatic Ground Environment (SAGE) radar system
In 1969, the University of California at Los Angeles, the Stanford Research Institute, the University o
California at Santa Barbara and the University of Utah were connected as part of the Advanced
Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET) project. It is this network that evolved to becom
what we now call the Internet.
Networks are used to:
Facilitate communication via email, video conferencing, instant messaging, etc.
Enable multiple users to share a single hardware device like a printer or scanner
Enable file sharing across the network
Allow for the sharing of software or operating programs on remote systems
Make information easier to access and maintain among network users
There are many types of networks, including:
Local Area Networks (LAN)
The computers are geographically close together (that is, in the same building).
Wide Area Networks (WAN)
The computers are farther apart and are connected by telephone lines or radio waves.
Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN)
A data network designed for a town or city.
Home Area Networks (HAN)
A network contained within a user's home that connects a person's digital devices.
Intranet
An intranet is basically a network that is local to a company. In other words, users from within this
company can find all of their resources without having to go outside of the company. An intranet can
include LANs, private WANs and MANs,
Extranet
An extranet is an extended intranet, where certain internal services are made available to known
external users or external business partners at remote locations.
Internet
An internet is used when unknown external users need to access internal resources in your network. In
other words, your company might have a web site that sells various products, and you want any
external user to be able to access this service.

VPN
A virtual private network (VPN) is a special type of secured network. A VPN is used to provide a
secure connection across a public network, such as an internet. Extranets typically use a VPN to
provide a secure connection between a company and its known external users or offices.
Authentication is provided to validate the identities of the two peers.
Confidentiality provides encryption of the data to keep it private from prying eyes.
Integrity is used to ensure that the data sent between the two devices or sites has not been tampered
with.
Benefits of networking
There are lots of advantages from build up a network, but the three big facts are-
File Sharing
From sharing files you can view, modify, and copy files stored on a different computer on the network
just as easily as if they were stored on your computer.
Resource Sharing
Resources such as printers, fax machines, Storage Devices (HDD, FDD and CD Drives), Webcam
Scanners, Modem and many more devices can be shared.
Program Sharing
Just as you can share files on a network, you can often also share program on a network. For example,
if you have the right type of software license, you can have a shared copy of Microsoft Office, or
some other program, and keep it on the network server, from where it is also run.
Network Host
A network host (or simply referred to as a host) can be any computer or network device connected to

the computer network. This computer can be a terminal or a web server offering services to its
clients.
Network Protocol
A network protocol (or just referred to as protocol) is a set of rules and conventions that are
necessary for the communication between two network devices. For example, two computers on a
network can communicate only if they agree to follow the protocols.
The following are some of the most widely referred network protocols:
Internet Protocol (IP Address)
An Internet Protocol address (IP address) is a numerical label assigned to each device (e.g.
computer, printer) participating in a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for
communication. An IP address serves two principal functions: host or network interface identification
and location addressing. Its role has been characterized as follows: "A name indicates what we seek.
An address indicates where it is. A route indicates how to get there."
IP addresses are binary numbers, but they are usually stored in text files and displayed in human-
readable notations, such as 172.16.254.1 (for IPv4), and 2001:db8:0:1234:0:567:8:1 (for IPv6).
Types of IP Address
Private IP Address: A private IP address is the one that is assigned to a computer on the Local Area
Network (LAN). A typical example of private IP address would be something like: 192.168.0.4
Public IP Address: A public IP address is the one that is assigned to a computer connected to the
Internet. An example public IP address would be something like: 59.93.115.119
In most cases a computer gets connected to the ISP network using a private IP. Once a computer is on
the ISP network it will be assigned a public IP address using which the communication with the
Internet is made possible.
How to Find the IP Address of a Computer?
Finding your public IP is extremely simple. Just type “what is my IP” on Google to see your public IP
address displayed in search results.

In order to find your private IP, just open the command prompt window (type cmd in the “Run” box)
and enter the following command:
ipconfig/all
This will display a long list of details about your computer’s network devices and their configuration.
To see your private IP address, just scroll down to find something as “IPv4 Address” which is
nothing but your private IP.
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
Hypertext Transfer Protocol, abbreviated as HTTP, is a communications protocol used for the
transfer of information over the Internet. A client makes an HTTP request using a web browser to
which an HTTP response is sent from the server.
File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
The File Transfer Protocol provides a standard for transferring files between two computers on the
network. FTP is most widely used in carrying out upload/download operations between a server and
a workstation.

Simple Main Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol provides a standard for sending e-mails from one server to
another. Most e-mail systems that send mail over the Internet use SMTP to exchange messages
between the server.
Telnet
Telnet is a network protocol that allows you to connect to remote hosts on the Internet or on a local
network. It requires a telnet client software to implement the protocol using which the connection is
established with the remote computer.
In most cases telnet requires you to have a username and a password to establish connection with the
remote host. Occasionally, some hosts also allow users to make connection as a guest or public.
After the connection is made, one can use text based commands to communicate with the remote host.
The syntax for using the telnet command is as follows:
telnet <hostname or IP> port
WWW
The World Wide Web (abbreviated as WWW or W3, and commonly known as the Web) is a system
of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet. With a web browser, one can view web
pages that may contain text, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via
hyperlinks.
It is the collection of internet resources (such as FTP, telnet, Usenet), hyperlinked text, audio, and
video files, and remote sites that can be accessed and searched by browsers based on standards such
as HTTP and TCP/IP.
SSH - Secure Shell
Developed by SSH Communications Security Ltd., Secure Shell is a program to log into anothe
computer over a network, to execute commands in a remote machine, and to move files from one
machine to another. It provides strong authenticationand secure communications over insecure
channels. It is a replacement for rlogin, rsh, rcp, and rdist.
SSH protects a network from attacks such as IP spoofing, IP source routing, and DNS spoofing.
An attacker who has managed to take over a network can only force ssh to disconnect. He or she
cannot play back the traffic or hijack the connection when encryptionis enabled.
When using ssh's slogin (instead of rlogin) the entire login session, including transmission of
password, is encrypted; therefore it is almost impossible for an outsider to collect passwords.

SSH port forwarding
An SSH service that provides secure and encrypted connections to traditionally non-encrypted
services, such as e-mail or news.
SSH port forwarding allows you to establish a secure SSH session and then tunnel TCP connection
through it. It works by opening a connection to forward a local port to a remote port over SSH.
The client software (e.g. your e-mail client) is then set to connect to the local port. With SSH port
forwarding passwords are sent over an encrypted connection. Also called SSH tunneling.
Network Port
A computer may be running several services on it like HTTP (web server), SMTP, FTP and so on
Each of these services are uniquely identified by a number called network port (or simply referred to
as port). If a computer wants to avail a specific service from another computer, it has to establish a
connection to it on the exact port number where the intended service is running.
For example, if a terminal is to request a web document from a remote server using HTTP, it has to
first establish a connection with the remote server on port 80 (HTTP service runs on port 80) before
placing the request.
In simple words, port numbers can be compared to door numbers where each door grants access to a
specific service on a computer.
List of Well-Known Ports
Port
Number
Description
1
TCP 
Port 
Service 
Multiplexer
(TCPMUX)
5
Remote Job Entry (RJE)
7
ECHO
18
Message Send Protocol (MSP)
20
FTP -- Data
21
FTP -- Control
22
SSH Remote Login Protocol
23
Telnet
25
Simple 
Mail 
Transfer 
Protocol
(SMTP)
29
MSG ICP
37
Time
42
Host Name Server (Nameserv)
43
WhoIs
49
Login Host Protocol (Login)
53
Domain Name System (DNS)

69
Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)
70
Gopher Services
79
Finger
80
HTTP
103
X.400 Standard
108
SNA Gateway Access Server
109
POP2
110
POP3
115
Simple File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
118
SQL Services
119
Newsgroup (NNTP)
137
NetBIOS Name Service
139
NetBIOS Datagram Service
143
Interim Mail Access Protocol (IMAP)
150
NetBIOS Session Service
156
SQL Server
161
SNMP
179
Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
190
Gateway Access Control Protocol
(GACP)
194
Internet Relay Chat (IRC)
197
Directory Location Service (DLS)
389
Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
(LDAP)
396
Novell Netware over IP
443
HTTPS
444
Simple 
Network 
Paging 
Protocol
(SNPP)
445
Microsoft-DS
458
Apple QuickTime
546
DHCP Client
547
DHCP Server
563
SNEWS
569
MSN
1080
Socks
A port number is a way to identify a specific process to which an Internet or other network
message is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server.
A port number is a way to identify a specific process to which an Internet or other network
message is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server. For the Transmission Control Protocol and
the User Datagram Protocol, a port number is a 16-bit integer that is put in the header appended

to a message unit. This port number is passed logically between client and server transport layers
and physically between the transport layer and the Internet Protocol layer and forwarded on.
Domain Name System
DNS, as it is called, refers to the hierarchical naming system used for computers, resources and
services on the Internet. It translates the computer hostnames to IP addresses.
DNS resolves an IP address to a hostname or vice versa.
DNS is basically a large database which resides on various computers that contains the names and IP
addresses of various hosts/domains. Other than ip-address DNS also associates various information
with the domain names.
Structure of a DNS
DNS uses a hierarchical tree based name structure. At top of the tree is the “root” (represented as a
dot (.) ) followed by the TLD ( Top Level Domain ), then by the domain-name and any number of
lower level sob-domains separated by a dot.
The Top Level Domains are divided into 2 categories:
1. Generic TLD (gTLD)
2. Country Code TLD (ccTLD)
Below are some of the common Generic Top Level Domains:
.com – comercial web sites
.org – non profit organizations web sites
.edu – restricted to schools and institutions.
.net – originally for network infrastructures, now unrestricted

Below are some fo the Country Code Top Level Domains:
.us – United States
.in – India
.uk – United Kingdom
.ru – Russia
The following shows a sample representation of the structure of the DNS tree:
Authority, Delegation and Zone
The Authority for the root domain and gTLD lies with Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and
Names (ICANN). ccTLD’s are delegated to individual countries for administration purpose. Eac
level in the hierarchy may delegate the authoritative control to the next lower level. There is a DNS
server running in every level of the hierarchy and the responsibility of running the DNS server lies
with the Authority at that level.
For Example, when the root domain gets a DNS query for www.example.com, the root will delegate
responsibility for resolving to its lower level “.com”, which in-turn will delegate to “example”.
Finally the DNS server in the “example” will respond with the IP address of the hostname “www”.
A zone is simply a portion of a domain. For example, the domain example.com may contain all the
information for a.example.com, b.example.com and c.example.com. However, the zone example.com
contains only information for example.com and delegates the responsibility to the authoritative name
servers for the subdomains. In general, if there are no subdomains, then the zone and domain are
essentially the same.
Resource Records
A DNS zone database is made up of a collection of resource records. Each resource record specifies
information about a particular object. The DNS server uses these records to answer queries for hosts
in its zone. For example, address mapping (A) record, map a host name to an IP address, and reverse-
lookup pointer (PTR) records map an IP address to a host name. Here are some of commonly used
Resource Records.

A Record: The ‘A’ record specifies the IP address of a host. ‘A’ record will have the details of the
domain name and its associated IP address. When a Query is given to resolve domain name, DNS
server will refer the ‘A’ record and answer with the IP address present in the record.
PTR Record: A PTR record maps the IP address to a specific host.
NS Record: An NS record or name server record maps a domain name to a list of DNS servers
authoritative for that domain. Delegations depend on NS records.
MX Record: An MX record or mail exchange record maps a domain name to a list of mail exchange
servers for that domain. For example, when you send a mail to alpha@example.com, the mail will be
routed to the Mail Server as specified in MX record.
DNS Queries
A DNS query would be something like ‘what is the IP address of a.example.com’. A DNS server may
receive such a query for any domain, to which it has no information about. The DNS server will
respond is different ways for which it has no information about.
The following are the three types of DNS queries:
1. Recursive query
2. Iterative query
3. Inverse query
In Recursive query, the following are the steps involved when a host queries its local DNS server for
‘a.example.com’.
Host sends query ‘what is the IP address of a.example.com’ to locally configured DNS
server.
DNS server looks up a.example.com in local tables – not found
DNS sends query to a root-server for the IP of a.example.com
The root-server replies with a referral to the TLD servers for .com
The DNS server sends query ‘what is the IP address a.example.com’ to one of the .com TLD
servers.
The TLD server replies with a referral to the name servers for example.com
The DNS server sends query ‘what is the IP address a.example.com’ to name server for
example.com.
Zone file defines a A record which shows ‘a’ s IP address is x.x.x.x.
DNS returns the A record for ‘a’.
In Iterative query, if the DNS server doesn’t know the answer, it will refer other DNS server as
response. So the client which initiates the query will once again contact the DNS server which came

in as response.
In Inverse query, an IP address will be provided and a hostname will be asked.
Proxy server
A proxy server is a server (a computer system or an application) that acts as an intermediary for
requests from clients seeking resources from other servers.
A client connects to the proxy server, requesting some service, such as a file, connection, web page,
or other resource available from a different server and the proxy server evaluates the request as a
way to simplify and control its complexity.
Proxies were invented to add structure and encapsulation to distributed systems.
Today, most proxies are web proxies, facilitating access to content on the World Wide Web and
providing anonymity.
Communication between two computers (shown in grey) connected through a third computer
(shown in red) acting as a proxy. Bob does not know whom the information is going to, which is
why proxies can be used to protect privacy.
Proxy Server - Types
There are many different types of proxy server and here are some common types:
Anonymous Proxy
Anonymous proxy servers conceal your information. When you go to request something from the
webpage, the webpage gets the IP address of the proxy server that you're using instead of your own.
The server has no way of accessing your IP address and communication between you and the proxy
server is encrypted, in cases where the greatest deal of security is desired.
High Anonymity Proxy

This type of proxy server does not identify itself as a proxy server and does not make available the
original IP address. High anonymity proxies, only include the REMOTE_ADDR header with the I
address of the proxy server, making it appear that the proxy server is the client.
Transparent Proxy
An example of a transparent proxy would be a server that simply forwards your request to the
resource that you want without concealing any of your information. This may be used in the
workplace, where the IP address of the request is revealed to the server being requested from but
where the proxy provides access to the resource for a multitude of computers within the network.
Transparent proxies are generally not what people are looking for when they go shopping for proxy
server access online.
Reverse Proxy
A reverse proxy server is generally used to pass requests from the Internet, through a firewall to
isolated, private networks. It is used to prevent Internet clients from having direct, unmonitored
access to sensitive data residing on content servers on an isolated network, or intranet. If caching is
enabled, a reverse proxy can also lessen network traffic by serving cached information rather than
passing all requests to actual content servers.
___________________________________
CHAPTER 5
Various Types of Hacking attacks
___________________________________
Active attacks
An active attack is a network exploit in which a hacker attempts to make changes to data on the target
or data en route to the target.
Types of active attacks
Masquerade Attack
In a masquerade attack, the intruder pretends to be a particular user of a system to gain access or to
gain greater privileges than they are authorized for.  A masquerade may be attempted through the use
of stolen login IDs and passwords, through finding security gaps in programs or through bypassing the
authentication mechanism.

Session Replay Attack
In a session replay attack, a hacker steals an authorized user’s log in information by stealing the
session ID. The intruder gains access and the ability to do anything the authorized user can do on the
website.
Message Modification Attack
In a message modification attack, an intruder alters packet header addresses to direct a message to a
different destination or modify the data on a target machine.
Denial of Service (DoS) attack
In a denial of service (DoS) attack, users are deprived of access to a network or web resource. This
is generally accomplished by overwhelming the target with more traffic than it can handle.
Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) exploit
In a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) exploit, large numbers of compromised systems
(sometimes called a botnet or zombie army) attack a single target.
Passive Attack
A passive attack is a network attack in which a system is monitored and sometimes scanned for open
ports and vulnerabilities. The purpose is solely to gain information about the target and no data is
changed on the target.
Passive attacks include active reconnaissance and passive reconnaissance.
In passive reconnaissance, an intruder monitors systems for vulnerabilities without interaction,
through methods like session capture.
In active reconnaissance, the intruder engages with the target system through methods like port
scans.
Methods of passive attacks
War driving detects vulnerable Wi-Fi networks by scanning them from nearby locations with a
portable antenna. The attack is typically carried out from a moving vehicle, sometimes with GPS
systems that hackers use to plot out areas with vulnerabilities on a map. War driving can be done just
to steal an Internet connection or as a preliminary activity for a future attack.
In dumpster diving, intruders look for information stored on discarded computers and other devices
or even passwords in trash bins. The intruders can then use this information to facilitate covert entry

to a network or system.
An intruder might masquerade as an authorized network user and spy without interaction. With that
access, an intruder might monitor network traffic by setting the network adapter to promiscuous mode.
_____________________
CHAPTER 6
Hacking Tools
_____________________
HACKING TOOLS
A hacking tool is a program designed to assist with hacking, or a piece of software which
can be used for hacking purposes.
Examples include Nmap, Nessus, John the Ripper, p0f, and Winzapper.
Bribes have also been described as among the most potent hacking tools, due to their
potential exploitation in social engineering attacks. Occasionally, common software such
as ActiveX is exploited as a hacking tool as well.
Hacking tools such as Cain and Abel, however, are well known as Script Kiddie Tools.
Script kiddies are people who follow instructions from a manual, without realising how it
happens. These Script Kiddies have been an enormous threat to computer security as
there are many hacking tools and keyloggers up for download which are free.
Password Cracker Software
A password cracker software, which is often referred to as a password recovery tool, can be used to
crack or recover the password either by removing the original password, after bypassing the data
encryption, or by outright discovery of the password. In the process of password cracking, a very
common methodology used to crack the user password is to repeatedly make guesses for the probable
password and perhaps finally hitting on the correct one. It cannot be denied that whenever we are
referring to cyber security, passwords are the most vulnerable security links. On the other hand if the
password is too completed, the user might forget it. Password Cracker software are often used by the
hackers to crack the password and access a system to manipulate it. Do not unethically use these
software for hacking passwords.
In the next section you would be getting familiar with some of the popular Password Cracker tools
which are used by hackers for password cracking.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

•       Ophcrack
•       Medusa
•       RainbowCrack
•       Wfuzz
•       Brutus
•       L0phtCrack
Fgdump
THC Hydra

•       John The Ripper
Aircrack

•       Cain And Abel
•       IKECrack
 
Wireless Hacking Tools
Wireless Hacking Tools are those hacking tools which are used to hack into a wireless network
which is usually more susceptible to security threats. One must also ensure that the network is
completely secured against hacking or other malwares. The list of wireless hacking tools which
would be discussed now can be used to do a Penetration Testing for a Wireless Network. This is an
intentional attack on a network to detect security vulnerabilities by accessing its data and
functionality.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

•       Aircrack-ng
•       Kismet
•       InSSIDer
•       KisMAC
•       Firesheep
•       Airjack
•       KARMA
•       NetStumbler
•       WepLab
 
Network Scanning & Hacking Tools
Click the software names to download the software from their website

Nmap
Nmap or Network Mapper is a free open source utility tool for network discovery and security
auditing solution for you. It is a flexible, powerful, portable and easy-to-use tool that is supported by
most of the operating systems like Linux, Windows, Solaris, Mac OS and others.

SuperScan
It is an multi-functional application that is designed for scanning TPC port. This is also a pinger and
address resolver. It also has useful features like ping, traceroute, WhoIs and HTTP request. There is
no need of installation as it is a portable application.

Angry IP Scanner
It is a fast port and IP address scanner. It is a lightweight and cross-platform application that has the
capacity to scan the IP addresses in any range and also in their ports. It simply pings each IP address.
 
Packet Crafting to Exploit Firewall Weaknesses
Through Packet crafting technique, an attacker capitalizes your firewall’s vulnerabilities. Here are
some packet crafting tools.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

•       Hping
•       Scapy
•       Netcat
•       Yersinia
•       Nemesis
•       Socat
 
Traffic Monitoring for Network Related Hacking
These tools allow users to monitor the websites one’s children or employees are viewing. Here’s a
list of some of these tools.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

Splunk
If you want to convert your data into powerful insights Splunk tools are the best options for you. The
Splunk tools are the leading platforms for operational intelligence. It can collect any type of data from
any machine in real time.

Nagios
Nagios is the name for the industry standard in monitoring IT infrastructure. The Nagios tools helps
you monitor your entire IT infrastructure and have the capability to detect problems well ahead they
occur. It can also detect security breaches and share data availability with stakeholders.

P0f
It is versatile passive tool that is used for OS fingerprinting. This passive tool works well in both
Linux and Windows operating systems. It has the capability to detect the hooking up of the remote
system whether it is Ethernet, DSL or OC3.

Ngrep
Ngrep or network grep is a pcap-aware tool that allows you to extend hexadecimal or regular
expressions in order to match it against the data loads of the packet. It can recognize IPv4/6, UDP,
TCP, Ethernet, SLIP, PPP, FDDI and many others.
 

Packet Sniffers to Analyze Traffic
These tools help capture and analyze incoming traffic on your website. Some of the popular ones are
listed below.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

•       Wireshark
•       Tcpdump
•       Ettercap
•       Dsniff
•       EtherApe
Paros

•       Fiddler
•       Ratproxy
•       Sslstrip
 
Rootkit Detectors to Hack File System
This is a directory and file integrity checker. It checks the veracity of files and notifies the user if
there’s an issue.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

•       AIDE (Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment)
•       Netfilter
•       PF: OpenBSD Packet Filter
 
Fuzzers to Search Vulnerabilities
Fuzzing is a term used by hackers for searching a computer system’s security vulnerabilities. Here is
a list of a few:
Click the software names to download the software from their website

•       Skipfish
•       Wfuzz
•       Wapiti
•       W3af
 
Forensics
These tools are used for computer forensics, especially to sniff out any trace of evidence existing in a
particular computer system. Here are some of the most popular.
Click the software names to download the software from their website

Sleuth Kit
It is an open source digital intervention or forensic tool kit. It runs on varied operating systems
including Windows, Linux, OS X and many other Unix systems. It can be used for analyzing disk
images along with in-depth analysis of file system like FAT, Ext3, HFS+, UFS and NTFS.

Helix
This is a Linux based incident response system. It is also used in system investigation and analysis
along with data recovery and security auditing. The most recent version of this tool is based on
Ubuntu that promises ease of use and stability.

Maltego
It is an open source forensic and intelligence application. It can be used for gathering information in
all phases of security related work. It saves you time and money by performing the task on time in
smarter way.

Encase
Encase is the fastest and most comprehensive network forensic solution available in the market. It is
created following the global standard of forensic investigation software. It has the capability of
quickly gathering data from wide variety of devices.
 
Debuggers to Hack Running Programs
These tools are utilized for reverse engineering binary files for writing exploits and analyzing
malware.
Click the software names to download the software from their website
