=== HTML Injection.pdf ===
Total Pages: 10
============================================================

 
HTML 
Injection 
 

What is HTML? 
HTML is the language that determines how application data (like 
a products catalog) gets presented to users in their web browser. 
This language contains visualization commands, like the colour of 
the page’s background and the size of embedded pictures. It also 
contains links to other web pages, and additional commands 
intended for the user’s browser. 
On modern interactive websites, the content of a web page often 
reflects the processing results of previous user actions.  
If user input is not validated and the application is vulnerable, an 
attacker could create and send input to the application that allows 
a piece of HTML code to be injected into the HTML content in the 
application's response. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

HTML Injection: 
HTML injection is a web vulnerability that lets an attacker inject 
malicious HTML content into legitimate HTML code of a web 
application. 
HTML Injection is an attack that is similar to Cross-site Scripting 
(XSS). While in the XSS vulnerability the attacker can inject and 
execute Javascript code, the HTML injection attack only allows the 
injection of certain HTML tags. 
When an application does not properly handle user supplied data, 
an attacker can supply valid HTML code, typically via a parameter 
value, and inject their own content into the page. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Malicious user(attacker) sends HTML code through any 
vulnerable field with the purpose to change the website’s design 
or any information that is displayed to the user. 
As a result, the user may see the data that was sent by the 
malicious user. Therefore, in general, HTML Injection is just the 
injection of markup language code to the document of the page. 
Because it takes advantage of a trust issue and a code-based 
vulnerability, this attack is usually employed in tandem with 
social engineering. 
HTML injection is planned mainly because of two goals: 
 To modify the website appearance so that the website’s 
reputation is tarnished. 
 To snatch the identity of someone authorized. 
 
 

How Does HTML Injection Work? 
The attack is executed using the links and data input fields of the 
targeted website. 
To bring this attack into action, steps as follows: 
1. Hackers begin by locating websites with weak HTML coding 
and injecting HTML. (HTML injection is commonly utilised in 
website elements like search bars, comments, and contact 
forms.) 
 
2. Functionality of this attack can be done by with the help of 
questionnaire form (which is allows web designer to 
understand or gain insight into intended user’s needs and 
wants to ensure that the final product delivered by web 
designers is an exact match. 
 
Then hacker compromises the website and then add HTML 
code snippets (a small portion of source code in HTML) that 
lead the intended user(victim) to believe website intended 
and force them to download malicious software. 
 
3. a user answers these questionnaires on any of these 
websites, they share information such as concerns, names, 
email addresses, and phone numbers. 
 
4. Upon submission of questionnaire form, an acknowledgment 
message is shared instantly to users, The corresponding 
code for this message will be: 
 
var user_name=location.href.indexOf(“user=”); 
document.getElementById(“Thank you for filling our 
questionnaire”).innerHTML=” Thank you for filling our 
questionnaire, ”+user; 
 
5. Since the code is simple to modify and highly susceptible, 
hackers will insert an HTML injection into the code. 

Showing another simple way of how HTML Injection performed 
through image 
 
Another possible attack scenario is demonstrated below: 
 Attacker discovers injection vulnerability and decides to use 
an HTML injection attack 
 Attacker crafts malicious link, including his injected HTML 
content, and sends it to a user via email 
 The user visits the page due to the page being located 
within a trusted domain 
 The attacker's injected HTML is rendered and presented to 
the user asking for a username and password 
 The user enters a username and password, which are both 
sent to the attacker’s server 
 

Types of HTML Injection: 
1. Stored HTML Injection: 
A stored HTML attack also known as “Persistence” occurs 
when a malicious script is injected into a web application 
and then permanently stored inside the application/Web 
server. The web server then dumps the malicious script back 
out to the user when the user accesses the injected 
webpage. 
 
 
2. Reflected HTML Injection: 
It occurs when an application receives data in an HTTP 
request and unsafely incorporates that data into the 
immediate response. Reflective HTML injection vulnerability 
allows an attacker to inject malicious code into a website, 
but they will only be visible to the current user that is 
neither stored in the database nor visible to anyone. 
 
This can again be divided into more types: 
I. 
Reflected GET HTML Injection: 
this Injection occurs when our input is being displayed 
(reflected) on the website. 
 
 

 
GET method is used to retrieve information from the 
given server using a given URI. If the attacker noticed 
the vulnerability, they could lead the phishing attacker 
as they could create a phishing page through linking 
elements to the URL and gain vicitm credentials. 
 
 
II. 
Reflected POST HTML Injection: 
This occurs when a malicious HTML code is being sent 
instead of the correct POST method parameters. 
 
For example, we have a login form that is vulnerable to 
HTML attack. Data typed in the login form is being sent 
using the POST method. Then, if we type any HTML 
code instead of the correct parameters, then it will be 
sent with POST method and displayed on the website. 
 
To perform the Reflected POST HTML attack, it is 
recommended to use a special browser plugin that will 
fake the sent data. One of them is the Mozilla Firefox 
plugin “Tamper Data”. The plugin takes over the sent 
data and allows the user to change it. Then changed 
data is being sent and displayed on the website. 
Attackers may not lead a damaging attack if the 
vulnerability is in same place, but the data is traveling 
through a post request. This vulnerability can be effect 
only the current user. 
 

III. 
Reflected URL HTML Injection: 
happens when HTML code is being sent through the 
website URL, displayed in the website and at the same 
time injected into the website’s HTML document. 
It is not necessary that you always find the HTML 
injection vulnerability in the input field, even some 
times the URL that is shown on the website may be 
unsafe or vulnerable. 
 
 
How to Test Against HTML Injections? 
When starting to test against a possible injection attack, a tester 
should first list out all the potentially vulnerable parts of the 
website that is All data input fields and Website link. 
The manual tests could be performed as follows 
When testing manually, a basic HTML code could be entered to 
see if the text would display, for example, if HTML Injection is 
possible. (It makes no sense to test with extremely complex 
HTML code; straightforward code might be sufficient to determine 
whether it is displayed). 
For example, there may be simple tags with text: 
<h1>HTML Injection testing</h1> 
If an HTML code being saved somewhere is displayed, then the 
tester can be sure that this injection attack is possible. Then a 
more complicated code may be tried, to display the fake login 
form. 
 
The HTML Injection Scanner is an additional solution. You could 
save a ton of time by having your system automatically scan for 
this attack. In contrast to other attacks, I would like to let you 
know that there aren't as many tools available for testing HTML 
Injection. 
 

WAS Application (WebSphere Application Server): 
WAS can be named quite a strong vulnerabilities scanner, as it 
tests with different inputs and does not just stop with the first 
fail.  
It is helpful for testing, browser plugin “Tamper Data”, it gets 
sent data, allows the tester to change it and sends it to the 
browser. 
 
Mitigation and Prevention HTML Injection: 
Below mentioned are some viable ways to control the spread and 
risks of HTML injections. 
1) Since the attack only targets unverified inputs and outputs, 
validating inputs and outputs is the first and most important 
step in preventing HTML injection. 
2) Inspecting each input to see whether any reference of HTML or 
script code is present. To aid you in the process, there are 
numerous tools available. 
3) Implementing good security testing procedures is another 
effective way to stop these attacks from spreading. To ensure 
that no website component is overlooked during testing, 
consider utilizing automated testing solutions. 
4) Using a Web Application Firewall, or WAF, is an excellent 
mitigation strategy to use. Website owners can prevent users 
or hackers from changing the input codes by using WAF. In 
this manner, HTML codes are excluded from website inputs. To 
lessen this kind of attack, a content security policy, or CSP, 
can be used. But keep in mind that not every use case will be 
covered by this policy. As a result, you must also embrace 
additional strategies. 
 
 
 
 
 

Comparison HTML Injection with other Attacks: 
This attack will undoubtedly not be seen as dangerous as an XSS, 
JavaScript Injection, or SQL Injection attack, in contrast to the 
other potential attacks. It won't erase the entire database or take 
every piece of information out of it. It shouldn't be written off as 
unimportant, though. 
the main purpose of this type of injection is changing the 
displayed website’s appearance with malicious purpose, 
displaying your sent information or data to the final user. Those 
risks may be considered less important. 
It should be mentioned, that for stealing other user’s data, this 
type of attack is less frequently selected, as there are a lot of 
other possible attacks. 
However, this is very similar to an XSS attack that steals a user's 
cookies or other users' identities. There is also his XSS attack 
based on HTML. Therefore, testing for XSS and HTML attacks are 
very similar and can be run together. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
i. 
https://www.researchgate.net/figure/Real-HTML-injection-
example_fig1_39556078 
ii. 
https://www.imperva.com/learn/application-security/html-
injection/ 
iii. 
https://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/html-
injection/ 
iv. 
https://www.wallarm.com/what/html-injection  
